Created a JSON (Guide), Sharding (Resource) and Troubleshooting Page Update (#278)
NilPointer-Software/bdfd-wiki: src/guides/json.md

# JSON Functions
Before you proceed to read this guide, first of all you already should know what JSON is and where and how it's being used.\

> Please read a tutorial about JSON on [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_json_intro.asp).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you read this guide, you should be familiar with what JSON is and where and how it's being used.\
You can familiarize yourself with JSON by reading a tutorial on [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_json_intro.asp).
```

> > This guide will contain the usage of the [Character Escaping](./characterEscaping.md) and the [`$optOff`](../bdscript/optOff.md) function in some cases.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> This guide will utilize [Character Escaping](./characterEscaping.md) and the [`$optOff`](../bdscript/optOff.md) function.
```

## $jsonParse
`$jsonParse` is the main function to start working with other JSON functions.\

> This function parses a JSON string into an object with which you can work further.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonParse` is the primary function used when working with JSON data.\
This function parses a JSON string into an object which can then be used by other JSON functions.
```

### Syntax
```
$jsonParse[JSON string]
```

### Parameters

> - `JSON string` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON string which should be parsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `JSON string` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON string to parse into an object.
```

### Examples

> See examples in the further of the current guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See examples further down the guide.
```

## $json

> `$json` is the function which retrieves JSON values from a specified key after the JSON string being parsed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$json` function retrieves JSON values from a specified key in the current JSON object.

> The `$json` function will return an empty string if the value is null, the key doesn't exist, no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.
```

### Syntax
```
$json[Key;...]
```

#### Parameters
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which should be retrieved.

### Examples

> The `$json` function will return an empty string if the value is a null, or the key doesn't exist, or no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

#### Without Arrays
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "username": "NightNutSky",
    "tag": "6700",
    "identity": {
        "age": 16
    }
}]

Username: $json[username]
Tag: $json[tag]
Age: $json[identity;age] years old
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/217574893-2f962a57-f56c-49cd-8009-4dbeecbf7822.png)

#### With Arrays
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "computer": [{
        "apps": {
            "software": ["BlueStacks", "Krita", "Visual Studio Code"\],
            "games": ["GTA 5", "RDR 2", "CS:GO", "Cyberpunk 2077"\]
        }
    },{
        "cpu": "Intel",
        "gpu": "NVIDIA",
        "ram": "XPG"
    }\]
}]

Software: $json[computer;0;apps;software]
Games: $json[computer;0;apps;games]
Brands: CPU - $json[computer;1;cpu], GPU - $json[computer;1;gpu], RAM - $json[computer;1;ram]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/213921257-2f5cdcb5-8abb-45fb-8342-9512804bcb75.png)

## $jsonSet
`$jsonSet` sets or replaces the value at the specified JSON key.

### Syntax
```
$jsonSet[Key;...;Value]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value should be set or replaced.
> - `Value` `(Type: Integer, Bool, Float, String || Flag: Required)`: The value which should be set or replaced.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value will be set or replaced.
- `Value` `(Type: Integer, Bool, Float, String || Flag: Required)`: The value to set or replace with.
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "username": "NightNutSky",
    "tag": "6700",
    "identity": {
        "age": 16
    }
}]

Username: $json[username]
Tag: $json[tag]
Age: $json[identity;age] years old

$jsonSet[username;Priyanuj]
$jsonSet[tag;2626]
$jsonSet[identity;age;19]

$optOff[Username: $json[username]
Tag: $json[tag]
Age: $json[identity;age] years old]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/214134724-9ea1a4fb-177e-473f-a5ca-a326829a135d.png)

## $jsonUnset

> The opposite of the [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonUnset` removes the value at the specified JSON key.\
In short, the opposite of the [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function.
```

### Syntax
```
$jsonUnset[Key;...]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which should be unset.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which will be unset.
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "username": "NightNutSky",
    "tag": "6700",
    "identity": {
        "age": 16
    }
}]

Username: $json[username]
Tag: $json[tag]
Age: $json[identity;age] years old

$jsonUnset[username]
$jsonUnset[tag]
$jsonUnset[identity;age]

$optOff[Username: $json[username]
Tag: $json[tag]
Age: $json[identity;age] years old]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/213921355-924d2647-86ff-4fc8-ac76-8edff1f82b51.png)

## $jsonExists

> `$jsonExists` checks if the specified JSON key exists in the parsed JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonExists` checks if the specified JSON key exists in the current JSON object.
```

> > Returns an empty result if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Returns an empty result if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) or [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.
```

Reviewer 2: ... ?
About it nowhere was stated.

Reviewer: The description for `$jsonExists[]` states "[...] Returns an empty string if **no json function was executed** or $jsonClear was executed".
This means that if before this function no other json function that can write data was run, it will return nothing.
Mainly `$jsonParse[]` and `$jsonSet[]` are used to create a new JSON object.

### Syntax
```
$jsonExists[Key;...]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which should be checked.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which will be checked.
```

### Examples

> See examples in the further of the current guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See examples further down the guide.
```

## $jsonArrayCount
`$jsonArrayCount` counts the elements in the specified JSON key.

### Syntax
```
$jsonArrayCount[Key;...]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the elememts should be counted.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the elements will be counted.
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "computer": [{
        "apps": {
            "software": ["BlueStacks", "Krita", "Visual Studio Code"\],
            "games": ["GTA 5", "RDR 2", "CS:GO", "Cyberpunk 2077"\]
        }
    },{
        "cpu": "Intel",
        "gpu": "NVIDIA",
        "ram": "XPG"
    }\]
}]

$onlyIf[$jsonExists[computer;0;apps;$message]==true;The specified category doesn't exist! Available categories are `software` and `games`]
The count of the `$message` apps is $jsonArrayCount[computer;0;apps;$message]. 
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/213921410-502456f6-b2dc-4423-849f-40f7adecdc40.png)

## $jsonArrayAppend
`$jsonArrayAppend` appends the value at the end of the specified JSON key.

### Syntax
```
$jsonArrayAppend[Key;...;Value]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value should be appended.
> - `Value` `(Type: Integer, Bool, Float, String || Flag: Required)` : The value which should be appended.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value will be appended.
- `Value` `(Type: Integer, Bool, Float, String || Flag: Required)` : The value to append.
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "computer": [{
        "apps": {
            "software": ["BlueStacks", "Krita", "Visual Studio Code"\],
            "games": ["GTA 5", "RDR 2", "CS:GO", "Cyberpunk 2077"\]
        }
    },{
        "cpu": "Intel",
        "gpu": "NVIDIA",
        "ram": "XPG"
    }\]
}]

$onlyIf[$jsonExists[computer;0;apps;$message[1]]==true;The specified category doesn't exist! Available categories are `software` and `games`]

$var[value;$replaceText[$message;$message[1] ;]]

$jsonArrayAppend[computer;0;apps;$message[1];$var[value]]

> The new app was added to the `$message[1]` category!
> Current apps in the `$message[1]` category: $json[computer;0;apps;$message[1]]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A new app was added to the `$message[1]` category!
Current apps in the `$message[1]` category: $json[computer;0;apps;$message[1]]
```

```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/213921444-209dd14c-d1f2-4d8d-960d-5bc52fd18cb1.png)

## $jsonStringify

> `$jsonStringify` turns parsed JSON into a string value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonStringify` turns the current JSON object into a string value.
```

> > The `$jsonStringify` function will return an empty string if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `$jsonStringify` function will return an empty string if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) or [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.
```

Reviewer 2: Same as https://github.com/NilPointer-Software/bdfd-wiki/pull/278#discussion_r1111064188

### Syntax
```
$jsonStringify
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "computer": [{
        "apps": {
            "software": ["BlueStacks", "Krita", "Visual Studio Code"\],
            "games": ["GTA 5", "RDR 2", "CS:GO", "Cyberpunk 2077"\]
        }
    },{
        "cpu": "Intel",
        "gpu": "NVIDIA",
        "ram": "XPG"
    }\]
}]

$jsonStringify
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/214134823-84ec207e-ab31-4ec1-8d80-ecab50701d96.png)

## $jsonPretty

> `$jsonPretty` turns parsed JSON into a pretty string value and then returns it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonPretty` turns the current JSON object into a pretty string value.
```

> > The `$jsonPretty` function will return an empty result if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `$jsonPretty` function will return an empty result if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) or [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.
```

Reviewer 2: Same as https://github.com/NilPointer-Software/bdfd-wiki/pull/278#discussion_r1111064188

### Syntax
```
$jsonPretty[Indent length]
```

#### Parameters
- `Indent length` `(Type: Integer || Flag: Required)`: The length of the indentation. Usually it's `2` or `4`.

### Example
```
$nomention
$disableInnerSpaceRemoval
$jsonParse[{"computer":[{"apps":{"software":["BlueStacks","Krita","Visual Studio Code"\],"games":["GTA 5","RDR 2","CS:GO","Cyberpunk 2077"\]}},{"cpu":"Intel","gpu":"NVIDIA","ram":"XPG"}\]
}]

$jsonPretty[4]
```

> > To make an output really pretty, we have to use [`$disableInnerSpaceRemoval`](../bdscript/disableInnerSpaceRemoval.md) firstly.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> For the output to really be pretty, we have to use the [`$disableInnerSpaceRemoval`](../bdscript/disableInnerSpaceRemoval.md) function.
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/214135087-1ea9ed9c-40ab-4c29-b5c6-d0da83478487.png)

## $jsonArray
`$jsonArray` marks a specified JSON key as an array.

### Syntax
```
$jsonArray[Key;...]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which should be marked as an array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key which will be marked as an array.
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "games": ""
}]

Non-array `games` key:
$jsonPretty[4]

$jsonArray[games]

Array `games` key:
$optOff[$jsonPretty[4]]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/214134895-216af646-c494-4328-a43d-a93e6c13859d.png)

## $jsonClear

> `$jsonClear` clears current parsed JSON.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonClear` clears out the current JSON object.
```

### Syntax
```
$jsonClear
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "username": "NightNutSky",
    "tag": "6700",
    "identity": {
        "age": 16
    }
}]

Username: $json[username]
$jsonClear
Username: $optOff[$json[username]]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/214381794-e94ba5e7-b90e-4c0e-971b-ca6b350928ee.png)

## $jsonArrayIndex

> `$jsonArrayIndex` gets array index of a given value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonArrayIndex` gets the array index of a given value.
```

> > The `$jsonArrayIndex` function will return `-1` if value not found and will return an empty result if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `$jsonArrayIndex` function will return `-1` if value not found and will return an empty result if no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) or [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.
```

Reviewer 2: Same as https://github.com/NilPointer-Software/bdfd-wiki/pull/278#discussion_r1111064188

### Syntax
```
$jsonArrayIndex[Key;...;Value]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key in which the index of the value should be found.
> - `Value` `(Type: String, Integer, Float || Flag: Required)`: The value of which an index should be found.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value will be searched for.
- `Value` `(Type: String, Integer, Float || Flag: Required)`: The value to search for.
```

### Example
```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "computer": [{
        "apps": {
            "software": ["BlueStacks", "Krita", "Visual Studio Code"\],
            "games": ["GTA 5", "RDR 2", "CS:GO", "Cyberpunk 2077"\]
        }
    },{
        "cpu": "Intel",
        "gpu": "NVIDIA",
        "ram": "XPG"
    }\]
}]

The $message's index in `apps/software` is $jsonArrayIndex[computer;0;apps;software;$message].
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/216845225-6830bc2b-616c-4fc6-932e-ed38be86cd4b.png)

## $jsonSetString

> The `$jsonSetString` function sets a JSON value at a specific key. Always sets this key to a string value.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`$jsonSetString` function sets or replaces the value at the specified JSON key. Always sets the value as a string.
```

### Syntax
```
$jsonSetString[Key;...;Value]
```

#### Parameters

> - `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value should be set.
> - `Value` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The value which should be set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Key` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON key where the value will be set or replaced.
- `Value` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The value to set or replace with.

> This function is recommended to be used mostly in economic-related commands. Why? The next example will explain it.
```

### Example

> > This function is recommended to be used mostly in economic related commands. Why, the further example will explain it.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

- `$jsonSet`
    ```
    $nomention
    $jsonParse[{}]

    $jsonSet[balance;$message]

    Balance key was set to: $json[balance]
    ```
    ![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/216845249-1ff900bd-ff1f-466d-bd60-b616aa90e334.png)
- `$jsonSetString`
    ```
    $nomention
    $jsonParse[{}]

    $jsonSet[balance;$message]

    Balance key was set to: $json[balance]
    ```
    ![Discord_QaUn8sArHA](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/216845276-62748993-567a-4022-bf59-69a77a37bc32.png)

> Also, if we set this value manually as a number, we'll encounter issues.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we set this value as a number manually, we'll encounter issues.
```

```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "balance": 788895455566645444567
}]

Balance key: $json[balance]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/216845297-44217351-0485-4249-a19d-edabbe9b71fb.png)

```
$nomention
$jsonParse[{
    "balance": "788895455566645444567"
}]

Balance key: $json[balance]
```

![](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/70456337/216845304-07a48e0c-65e7-4229-90a8-f705201dfdd5.png)

> > Therefore, we should set such big numbers as strings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Therefore, we should set big numbers as strings.
```

# JSON Functions
Before you read this guide, you should be familiar with what JSON is and where and how it's being used.\
You can familiarize yourself with JSON by reading a tutorial on [W3Schools](https://www.w3schools.com/js/js_json_intro.asp).

> This guide will utilize [Character Escaping](./characterEscaping.md) and the [`$optOff`](../bdscript/optOff.md) function.

## $jsonParse
`$jsonParse` is the primary function used when working with JSON data.\
This function parses a JSON string into an object which can then be used by other JSON functions.

### Syntax
```
$jsonParse[JSON string]
```

### Parameters
- `JSON string` `(Type: String || Flag: Required)`: The JSON string to parse into an object.

### Examples
See examples further down the guide.

## $json
`$json` function retrieves JSON values from a specified key in the current JSON object.

> > The `$json` function will return an empty string if the value is null, the key doesn't exist, no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The `$json` function will return an empty string if the value is null, the key doesn't exist, no [`$jsonParse`](#jsonparse) or [`$jsonSet`](#jsonset) function was executed, or [`$jsonClear`](#jsonclear) was executed.
```
